# Mid-Boot-Camp-2023
[Tableau Link](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/erico.fernandes/viz/MidBootCampProject/Sheet5?publish=yes)

This README file should work as a guide to a study called "Descriptive Analysis on Cryptocurrency between 2013 and 2019"
The data set was retrieved from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/philmohun/cryptocurrency-financial-data and contains 28944 rows and 8 columns.

Content of the Dataset /columns:

Currency name (e.g. bitcoin, tezos, bitcoin-sv, etc)

Date (Date refers to the calendar date for the particular row - 24 hours midnight to midnight)

Open (what the price was at the beginning of the day)

High (Highest recorded trading price of the day)

Low (Lowest recorded trading price of the day)

Close (what the price was at the end of the day , It is often used as a reference point for assessing the performance of the cryptocurrency during that time frame)

Volume (represents the monetary value of the currency traded in a 24 hour period, denoted in USD. Per example High trading volume can indicate increased interest and liquidity in the market.)

Marketcap (Market cap is circulating supply x price of the coin. For example, if you have 100 coins that are worth 10 dollars each, your market cap is $1,000. It's a measure of the cryptocurrency's overall size and importance in the market.)



Libraries used: 
import pandas as pd
import statsmodels
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns
import plotly.express as px
from datetime import datetime

Code used: python

Questions for the study/Descriptive Analysis on Cryptocurrencies in the period between 2013-2109

Looking at the range 2013-2019 which were the best years to invest in crypto coins and in which currencies?
Which of the top currencies were the most volatile?
What were the top 5 currencies between 2013 and 2019 looking at the volume and market_cap generated by those currencies.
In the best year of the top1 cryptocoin, was that coin significantly above or below the average/mean of market_cap during 2013-2019?

Process and Guide through the jupyter notebook

The jupyternotebook starts with the data import from a csv file called 'S_consolidated_coin_data.csv' and the next steps are just quick overviews on the database looking at shape, info, head and tail.
The next steps are also part of an overview but aiming to cleaning and preparation of the data with some codes runned to check for Null values and missing data.

Cleaning and Formatting process with lower casing the name of the variables and columns.
Still in the Cleaning and formatting we decided to deal with column date that needed to be converted to datetime and retrieve the ranges to figure out the dates that were comprehending the dataset. Next we took the opportunity to check the other datatypes and make a note on the necessity of converting them.

Finding out that the rest of the variables were objects we decided to convert them to numerical.
Next we decided to format the numbers in the columns market_cap and volume that were expressed in millions and billions by removing the commas. Making it more easier to read

Starting Exploratory Analysis by separating the numerical from categorical
Next because we were scared about the big numbers we wanted to check for outliers using boxplots and code.
Deciding on which variables to rely on to answer the questions set for the study: Done by correlation matrix. From then we starting thinking on the most explanatory variables.

After the correlation matrix and still thinking about the big numbers we decided to scale the values using min max scaler.


Exploratory Analysis looking at sum of volume 3 years before covid-19 for top 3 cryptocurrencies. with some code to find the top currencies by volume and then plots for visualization.

Exploratory Analysis using multiple pivot tables and group by codes and functions. Alternating between market cap and volume looking essecially at the mean but also at the sum per currency.
Exploratory Analysis: In the pivot tables and group by the years months and days were selecting to appear in isolated columns in order to facilitate analysis on the trend.

Exploratory Analysis to check for volatility of Crypto. A couple of approaches were used there finding the price difference between high and low or open and close columns.

Ends with a Hyphotesis test comparing 2 means . The mean of 2018 for the top1 crypto and the mean between 2013-2019 for the top1 crypto
